Improve documentation (#984)
mild-blue/txmatching: documentation/README.md

HLA-A9 consists of 3 closely related specificities, A23, A24, A2403.

First is the broad specificity, which is kind of a supertype. In this example, it is A9.

Next is split specificity. Splits or “subtypes” are the finer specificities that comprise the supertype. In this
example, it's for instance A23.

*Here is the table of Broad-Splits associations used in this app: http://hla.alleles.org/antigens/broads_splits.html*

> Finally, we also specify high resolution, which is the most specific, specifying also things like specific HLA protein,

Author: :D mas pravdu to je docela desna veta

> Finally, we also specify high resolution, which is the most specific, specifying also things like specific HLA protein,

Author: ```suggestion
Last resolution type is high resolution. It defines specific HLA protein,
```

an organ after it is transplanted, and cause the immune system to destroy it. Most of the time these antibodies are
directed against HLA.

> Antibodies of a patient are found by a special lab test. This test does not find the antibodies directly but tests which antigens (from a limited set) the patient has the antibodies against. The lab test can differ from lab to lab, each can use a bit different set of antibodies in the test.

Reviewer: "The lab test can differ from lab to lab, each can use a bit different set of antibodies in the test." 
neni to skor
"The lab test can differ from lab to lab, each can use a bit different set of antigens in the test."
? 
tym ze (ak to spravne chapem) sa zoberu dake antigeny a pyta sa ze "na ktore z tohto ma pacient antibodies?"

> Antibodies of a patient are found by a special lab test. This tests does not find the antibodies directly but tests which antigens (from a limited set) the patient has the antibodies against. The lab tests can differ from lab to lab, each can use a bit different set of antibodies in the test.

Reviewer 2: typo: this test**s**

Reviewer 2: probably typo: "The lab test**s** can differ..."

> For each antigen the test reports MFI value and the higher the MFI value is the stronger was the immunological response. The lab then uses some cutoff value to distinguish which antibodies the patient has and which not. This cutoff can differ between labs and in some special cases in can be set differently for patients from the same lab (in the case the patient really needs a kidney and it is worth for the patient to have the transplant even when there is a small immunological response)

Reviewer 2: I am not sure if the reader knows what MFI is, but it might be obvious from the context. Maybe it is reasonable to define it somewhere?

Reviewer: it is defined at the bottom.. which maybe leads to duplicate information? 

moreover i thought that it tests for effectiveness rather than whether the antibody exists or not
"The lab then uses some cutoff value to distinguish which antibodies the patient has and which not. " -> 
"The lab then uses some cutoff value to distinguish which antibodies of he patient are effective/strong enough/idk and which not. "

viem ze neskor to definujes inak ale nejak sa mi to asi nepaci/nerozumiem tomu hlavne ak sa da ten cutoff menit. a aj lebo ten antibody tam je ale je proste len slaby.

tak toto je mozno take ze len otazka do plena

Reviewer 2: yes, I see it. then I'll make a link to where this is defined

> The parsing is done in two modes. In case we receive about the patient all antibodies, positive and negative in high resolution we use processing logic of type A. This is the better, more precise case. In other situations we use type B

Reviewer: missing dot at the end of the sentence

Reviewer: also
"In case we receive about the patient all antibodies," -> "In case we receive all antibodies of the patient"

Author: updated

> ### Processing logic of type A

Reviewer: different heading type than on line 97

Reviewer: tu som myslela aj pocet # 
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/56656359/189633357-321c6da0-f277-4ce4-af97-7ef332b6328a.png)

> In this case we assume we have received ALL antibodies in high resolution the antibody test was done for, with MFI values and required cutoff (the cutoff is sometimes then changed later in case it is found useful).

Reviewer 2: maybe `"... it is found useful" -> "... it is found reasonable"` ?

Author: I have updated the description

For each antigen, the test reports an MFI value, and the higher the MFI value is the stronger was the immunological response. The lab then uses some cutoff value to distinguish which antibodies of the patient are strong enough and which are not. This cutoff can differ between labs and in some special cases it can be set differently for patients from the same lab (in the case the patient really needs a kidney and it is worth for the patient to have the transplant even when there is a small immunological response)

Further we will be using terms:
- Positive antibody of a patient: antibody of the patient was in a lab test above cutoff.
- Negative antibody of a patient: antibody of the patient was in a lab test below the cutoff.
- All tested antibodies of a patient: all antibodies the patient was tested for.

The parsing is done in two modes. In case we receive all tested antibodies of a patient in high resolution we use the processing logic of type A. This is the better, more precise case. In other situations we use type B.

### Processing logic of type A

> In this case, we assume we have received all tested antibodies in high resolution with MFI values and the required cutoff (The cutoff is configurable. In some cases the user can decide to change it for some patients, for more details see section Configuring Cutoff).

Author: good point upravim

> In this case, we assume we have received all tested antibodies in high resolution with MFI values and the required cutoff (The cutoff is configurable. In some cases the user can decide to change it for some patients, for more details see section Configuring Cutoff).

Author: mrkni, jak se ti to zda.

an organ after it is transplanted, and cause the immune system to destroy it. Most of the time these antibodies are
directed against HLA.

Antibodies of a patient are found by a special lab test. This test does not find the antibodies directly but tests which antigens (from a limited set) the patient has the antibodies against. The lab test can differ from lab to lab, each can use a bit different set of antigens in the test.

For each antigen, the test reports an MFI value, and the higher the MFI value is the stronger was the immunological response. The lab then uses some cutoff value to distinguish which antibodies of the patient are strong enough and which are not. This cutoff can differ between labs and in some special cases it can be set differently for patients from the same lab (in the case the patient really needs a kidney and it is worth for the patient to have the transplant even when there is a small immunological response)

Further we will be using terms:

> - Positive antibody of a patient: antibody of the patient was in a lab test over cutoff.

Author: jop, makes sense, upresnime ty nerovnosti

- Negative antibody of a patient: antibody of the patient was in a lab test strictly lower than the cutoff (we use also "below").
- All tested antibodies of a patient: all antibodies the patient was tested for.

The parsing is done in two modes. Type A and type B that are described below. (The name is purely our, it has no connection with any term used in immunology). Decision which parsing mode is selected is simple, if requirements for type A are fulfilled, type A processing runs, otherwise we fallback to type B.

> Type A requires that all antibodies are in high resolution and having all tested antibodies of a patient. We assume that if the criteria below are fullfiled this holds.

Author: vzdy hned tady pod tim mas tri body, ktery jsou ty kriteria. Co na nich neni pochopitelny?
- All antibodies we receive are in high resolution.
- There is at least 20 antibodies provided.
- There is at least 1 antibody below cutoff.

### Virtual crossmatch in TXM

In the case of a lab crossmatch there either is a crossmatch or there is not. But in the case of virtual crossmatch it is always only an approximation of reality and estimation of a likelihood of a crossmatch. Therefore, in cooperation with immunologists we have concluded that it makes sense to have several levels of virtual crossmatch.

In the case of split or broad resolution we do not assume that. We assume that the patient has been tested for all relevant antibodies but only the positive MFI values are required. Although, negative can be send too.

Below we describe all the different crossmatch level. For each level we describe a crossmatch for one specific antigen of donor. We use terms
- all antibodies - all antibodies the recipient was tested for, both with MFI below and above cutoff
- positive antibodies - antibodies that the recipient really has (with MFI above cutoff)
- negative antibodies - antibodies that the recipient was tested for, but were not present. (makes sense only for type A parsing)

#### HIGH RES
1. donor antigen is in high resolution and recipient has an antibody against the exact antigen.

> 2. donor antigen is in high resolution and recipient is type A parsed and was not tested for donors antigen. But all antibodies that match donors antigen in split resolution are positive (and there is at least one such antibody)

Reviewer: missing dot at the end of the sentence

> 3. donor antigen is in low resolution and recipient is type A parsed and all antibodies that match donors antigen in low resolution are positive (and there is at least one such antibody).

Reviewer: tu ma trosku skrie ze sa hovori "low resolution" ale neni to napr spomenute v nomenclature ako vyraz. ze ludi ktori netusia, tak mozno nie hned vedia ako spada do toho rozdelenia broad, split, high res zrazu low res

Author: prepsano

Example for case 1: donor has antigen DRB1\*08:18, and recipient has antibody DRB1\*08:18.

Example for case 3: donor has antigen DR8, and recipient has antibodies DRB1\*08:01, DRB1\*08:02, ... DRB1\*08:18 and all are positive.

#### SPLIT
1. Donor antigen is in split resolution and recipient has matching antibody in split or high resolution (after conversion)
2. Donor antigen is in high resolution and recipient has matching antibody in split resolution

> Example: donor has antigen DQ8 and recipient has antibody DRB1\*08:01 or donor has antigen DQ8 and recipient has antibody DQ8

Reviewer: missing dot, "Example" -> "Example for case 1."

Reviewer: resp aj v 1. a 2. su, neviem ci aj taketo veci sme mali komentovat

Author: updated

Author: mrkni jestli je to ted srozumitelny

Reviewer: este mam cakat na update hej

When you perform the test virtually, you do it like we do in TXM and check whether the recipient has antibodies against
any HLAs the donor has been typed for programmatically.

### Virtual crossmatch in TXM

In the case of a lab crossmatch there either is a crossmatch or there is not. But in the case of virtual crossmatch, it is always only an approximation of reality and estimation of a likelihood of a crossmatch. Therefore, in cooperation with immunologists, we have concluded that it makes sense to have several levels of virtual crossmatch.

In the case of split or broad resolution, we do not assume that. We assume that as there are less split antigens that the patient has been tested for all relevant ones. And therefore for the algorithm, it is enough to know only the positive ones. Although, negative can be sent too and are ignored.

Below we describe all the different crossmatch levels. For each level, we describe a crossmatch for one specific antigen of the donor.

#### HIGH RES
1. donor antigen is in high resolution and the recipient has an antibody against the exact antigen.

> 2. donor antigen is in high resolution and the recipient is type A parsed and was not tested for donor's antigen. But all tested antibodies that match the donor's antigen in split resolution are positive (and there is at least one such antibody).

Author: bod 2. se resi:
https://github.com/mild-blue/txmatching/blob/6dd3b4698f693455e2e37f04353520b3d24f9e1c/txmatching/utils/hla_system/hla_crossmatch.py#L78-L85

> 2. donor antigen is in high resolution and the recipient is type A parsed and was not tested for donor's antigen. But all tested antibodies that match the donor's antigen in split resolution are positive (and there is at least one such antibody).

Author: A taky vlastne tady (tzn tam ted chybelo pridat i slovicko split, to pridam):

https://github.com/mild-blue/txmatching/blob/6dd3b4698f693455e2e37f04353520b3d24f9e1c/txmatching/utils/hla_system/hla_crossmatch.py#L110-L116

> 2. donor antigen is in high resolution and the recipient is type A parsed and was not tested for donor's antigen. But all tested antibodies that match the donor's antigen in split resolution are positive (and there is at least one such antibody).

Author: **Otazka 1**

ano kontrola tam dobre neni, jak rikas.

> 2. donor antigen is in high resolution and the recipient is type A parsed and was not tested for donor's antigen. But all tested antibodies that match the donor's antigen in split resolution are positive (and there is at least one such antibody).

Author: **Otazka 2**

no tim ignored myslim, ze nejsou ty negativni pro split a broad zahozeny rovnou ale k nicemu se realne uvnitr v tom algoritmu ty negativni nepouzijou

> 2. donor antigen is in high resolution and the recipient is type A parsed and was not tested for donor's antigen. But all tested antibodies that match the donor's antigen in split resolution are positive (and there is at least one such antibody).

Author: @jogobeny  dal jsem tam v bode dve spatnej link na radky, sry. Viz EDITEd. mrkni, jestli je to ted srozumitelnejsi.

> 2. donor antigen is in high resolution and the recipient is type A parsed and was not tested for donor's antigen. But all tested antibodies that match the donor's antigen in split resolution are positive (and there is at least one such antibody).

Author: ted kod co tam mas ted je podle me spatne, rekneme si na standupu

> 2. donor antigen is in high resolution and the recipient is type A parsed and was not tested for donor's antigen. But all tested antibodies that match the donor's antigen in split resolution are positive (and there is at least one such antibody).

Author: no ted kod je fakt zmatenej, tohle si nemyslim ze tohle je dobrej pristup, me zabere desne casu se v tom kodu vyznat, a tim spis ze je zprasenej. To neni efektivne stravenej cas.

Pripada mi to ramcove ok.

3. donor antigen is in split/broad resolution and the recipient is type A parsed and all tested antibodies that match donor's antigen in split/broad resolution are positive (and there is at least one such antibody).

Example for case 1: donor has antigen DRB1\*08:18, and the recipient has antibody DRB1\*08:18.

Example for case 3: donor has antigen DR8, and the recipient has antibodies DRB1\*08:01, DRB1\*08:02, ... DRB1\*08:18 and all are positive.

#### SPLIT
1. Donor antigen is in split resolution and the recipient has a matching antibody in split or high resolution (after conversion)
2. Donor antigen is in high resolution and the recipient has a matching antibody in split resolution

Example for case 1: donor has antigen DQ8 and the recipient has antibody DRB1\*08:01 or donor has antigen DQ8 and the recipient has antibody DQ8

> #### HIGH_RES_WITH_SPLIT

Author: Type A ted v kodu explicitne nemame, takze nejaky casy skutecne ted proklouznou.

tzn ten test co rikas if set(matching_antibodies) == set(antibodies_with_high_res): dava smysl Obecne asi budeme chtit v kodu to explicitneji rozdelit na ty dva casy. 

ta druha cast otazky mi neni uplne jasna. Trosku jsem upravil ten text. a pridal example. mrkni

1. Donor antigen is in split resolution and the recipient is type A parsed. Some antibodies that match donors' antigens in split resolution are positive and some are negative.
2. Donor antigen is in high resolution and the recipient is type A parsed and was not tested for donors antigen. Some antibodies that match donors' antigens in split resolution are positive and some are negative.

Example for case 1: donor has antigen DR8, and the recipient has antibodies DRB1\*08:01 and DRB1\*08:18 and only one is over
the cutoff.

#### BROAD
1. Donor antigen is in broad resolution and the recipient has a matching antibody in split/broad/high resolution
2. Donor antigen is in high/split/broad resolution and the recipient has a matching antibody in broad resolution

Example for both cases: donor has antigen DQ3 and the recipient has antibody DQ3.

#### HIGH_RES_WITH_BROAD

> Donor antigen is in broad resolution and the recipient is type A parsed. Some antibodies that match donors' antigen in broad resolution are positive and some are negative.

Author: vylepsil jsem text kolem podminky, rekni jestli ted jasne.

When you perform the test virtually, you do it like we do in TXM and check whether the recipient has antibodies against
any HLAs the donor has been typed for programmatically.

### Virtual crossmatch in TXM

In the case of a lab crossmatch there either is a crossmatch or there is not. But in the case of virtual crossmatch, it is always only an approximation of reality and estimation of a likelihood of a crossmatch. Therefore, in cooperation with immunologists, we have concluded that it makes sense to have several levels of virtual crossmatch.

> In the case of split or broad resolution, we do not assume that. We assume that as there are less split antigens that the patient has been tested for all relevant ones. And therefore for the algorithm, it is enough to know only the positive ones. Although, negative can be sent too and are ignored.

Author: ```suggestion
Some crossmatch levels or ways to find a crossmatch are meaningful only in the case of processing logic of type A, because with type B we have less information. 
```

Example for case 1: donor has antigen DRB1\*08:18, and the recipient has antibody DRB1\*08:18.

Example for case 3: donor has antigen DR8, and the recipient has antibodies DRB1\*08:01, DRB1\*08:02, ... DRB1\*08:18 and all are positive.

#### SPLIT
1. Donor antigen is in split resolution and the recipient has a matching antibody in split or high resolution (after conversion)
2. Donor antigen is in high resolution and the recipient has a matching antibody in split resolution

Example for case 1: donor has antigen DQ8 and the recipient has antibody DRB1\*08:01 or donor has antigen DQ8 and the recipient has antibody DQ8

#### HIGH_RES_WITH_SPLIT
1. Donor antigen is in split resolution and the recipient is type A parsed. Some antibodies that match donors' antigens in split resolution are positive and some are negative.
2. This criterion is more complex. Here we list the requirements in a list:
   1. Donor antigen is in high resolution.
   2. The recipient is type A parsed.

>    3. Donors antigen is not in the set of all tested antibodies.

Author: ```suggestion
   3. Donor's antigen is not in the set of all tested antibodies.
```

>    4. Some antibodies that match donors' antigens in split resolution are positive and some are negative.

Author: ne, ma tam byt apostrof pred s
